Despite improved cooperation , Vietnam could do much more to aid the efforts of American investigators searching for clues about servicemen unaccounted for in the Vietnam War , Defense Secretary Dick Cheney said today .
The Bush Administration has linked the pace and scope of normalizing relations between the two former enemies to Hanoi 's cooperation in resolving the highly emotional issue of missing Americans in Southeast Asia .
The head of the United States office in Hanoi told a Senate committee today that some American servicemen were left behind as prisoners in Vietnam at the end of the war , but that there is no proof that any of them are still alive .
The head of a Pentagon intelligence unit assigned to account for United States servicemen missing in Vietnam has resigned , accusing Bush Administration officials of seeking to discredit and perhaps even cover up reports of sightings of Americans in the country .
The Administration has begun a diplomatic effort around Southeast Asia to check the veracity of a photograph that supposedly shows that three American flyers missing since the Vietnam War may still be alive , officials said .
Vietnam says that one of the men in a photograph that supposedly shows three missing prisoners of war is dead and that his remains were given to the United States last year , the Pentagon announced today .
The Defense Department said today that Vietnam had sent back animal bones , not human remains , in the case of a man purportedly in a snapshot showing American servicemen missing since the Vietnam War .
The release of a photograph supposedly showing three lost Vietnam War fliers has stirred new moves in Congress to examine the Administration 's efforts to account for thousands of Vietnam War servicemen , even though some members express doubt about the picture 's authenticity .
Brent Scowcroft , the President 's national security adviser , today dismissed charges that the Administration was not committed to finding surviving Vietnam War servicemen and he said there was no credible evidence that Vietnam still held any American prisoners of war .
As a result of improving American-Vietnamese relations , the Defense Department said today that it was sharply increasing the number of people assigned to investigate the cases of servicemen unaccounted for in the Vietnam War .
The leaders of Vietnam and Cambodia have renewed pledges of an `` open inquiry '' to resolve rapidly the fates of Americans listed as missing in action in those Southeast Asian nations , Senator John Kerry said today .