A Senate committee investigating the handling of missing American servicemen in Southeast Asia toned down its criticism of former President Richard M. Nixon and his Secretary of State , Henry A. Kissinger , after protests from both men .
In a report that will help fuel the continuing argument over the handling of servicemen missing in the Indochina war , the Senate Select Committee on P.O.W.-M.I.A .
Affairs has concluded that the possibility remains that some prisoners of war were left behind when American forces withdrew from South Vietnam in 1973 .
After more than a year of hearings , investigations of Government documents and trips to Southeast Asia , the committee could not come to a conclusive finding on whether Americans were left prisoner in Vietnam , Cambodia or Laos .
Committee members were split in the final drafting of the report , with two Republican Senators , Robert C. Smith of New Hampshire and Charles E. Grassley of Iowa , pressing the panel to criticize the Defense Department and other agencies more strongly for abandoning servicemen , or at least not adequately accounting for them .
No issue has been more enduring or painful over the last three decades than the fate of thousands of United States servicemen taken prisoner or missing during the Vietnam War and still unaccounted for .
The thorough Senate committee report released yesterday on the fate of Americans missing since the Vietnam War should dispel suspicions of a U.S. Government conspiracy or cover-up .
Vietnam has handed over more documents on Americans missing in action to the United States , Assistant Secretary of State Winston Lord said today .
He declined to say what was in the documents or whether they shed any new light on missing Americans .
The first coordinated American-Vietnamese-Laotian search for Americans missing in action ended Sunday with mixed results .
In its first policy decision on Vietnam , the Clinton Administration will send John W. Vessey Jr. , a retired Army general , to Hanoi on a fact-finding mission on missing American servicemen , a move that could lead the United States to withdraw its opposition to international bank lending to Vietnam , senior Administration officials said today .
The officials stressed that President Clinton will make no decision on easing any American pressure on Vietnam until he is convinced that Hanoi is doing all it can to cooperate with the American authorities on the contentious and emotional issue of Americans missing since the Vietnam War .
A document described as a top secret report written by a senior North Vietnamese general and delivered to the Communist Party Politburo in Hanoi in September 1972 says that North Vietnam was holding 1,205 American prisoners of war when Hanoi maintained that the number was only 368 .
The White House promised today that a Presidential envoy would press Vietnam next week for an explanation of a previously secret document suggesting that Hanoi held 1,205 United States prisoners of war in 1972 , three times more than it admitted then or later .
The document , found in January by an American researcher in the archives of the Soviet Communist Party in Moscow , could prove politically explosive if it is authentic , because it suggests that more than 600 American prisoners were killed , died of natural causes or remain in Vietnamese hands .
Only 591 prisoners were released by Hanoi under the peace agreement with the United States , the last on April 1 , 1973 , and Hanoi has denied holding any more .
Pentagon officials cautioned today against putting too much stock in a newly unearthed document that suggests that North Vietnam lied about the number of American prisoners it held in 1972 .
But advocates for the families of missing servicemen rushed to embrace the document 's findings .
Vietnam 's senior diplomat dealing with United States affairs today described as a `` clear fabrication '' a document suggesting that 1,205 American prisoners of war were in North Vietnamese prisons in 1972 , more than double the number eventually released .
The long smoldering issue of unaccounted-for American prisoners from the Vietnam War has flared anew .
Particularly for those American business executives who hope the 18-year estrangement between the United States and Vietnam is coming to end , the report could not have come at a worse moment : four days before a special United States envoy was to travel to Hanoi to ascertain whether the Vietnamese were cooperating in the search for missing Americans , a stunning document surfaced suggesting that Hanoi has misled the United States about the number of prisoners it has held .
The report , dug up in Moscow by Stephen J. Morris , a Harvard-based researcher who opposes rapprochement with the communist regime in Vietnam , states that in September 1972 , Hanoi held 1,205 American prisoners .
A document recently unearthed in Moscow has breathed new life into one of this city 's most enduring conspiracy theories : that the Reagan and Bush Administrations covered up attempts by Vietnam to trade American prisoners of war for cash .
 Vietnam provided American investigators with documents today that it says prove the fraudulence of a report found in Russia which suggests that hundreds of American prisoners of war were never freed .
A Vietnamese general denied today that he had written in 1972 that Hanoi held more than twice as many American prisoners as it ultimately released .
A special Presidential envoy to Vietnam presented President Clinton today with evidence that he said undermined a recently found Russian document suggesting that Hanoi lied to Washington about the number of American prisoners it held in 1972 .
Officials from Vietnam , Laos and the United States will hold talks in Hanoi this week in an effort to speed the hunt for Americans still missing from the Indochina war , American investigators said today .
The United States will end its opposition to international loans to Vietnam , but the establishment of normal relations with Hanoi will depend on further progress in accounting for Americans missing in action from the Vietnam War , President Clinton announced today .
The President has decided on a two-pronged approach to allow the International Monetary Fund to lend money to Vietnam , and at the same time to send a delegation to Hanoi to press for more information about missing Americans .
Human remains and the wreckage of crashed aircraft have been found in northern Laos by an American military search team looking for servicemen lost in the Indochina war .
Vietnam today rejected a Soviet document suggesting that Hanoi held more American prisoners of war than it had acknowledged in the early 1970 's , asserting that figures in the document resulted from `` misunderstanding of information or deliberate fabrication . ''
A Foreign Ministry spokesman , in Hanoi 's first formal comment on the report , said North Vietnam held 580 American and allied prisoners when the Paris peace accords were signed in January 1973 .
Two months later , after United States forces withdrew , Hanoi released 591 American prisoners .
`` Since then and up until now , no American prisoner of war has been held in Vietnam , '' the spokesman said .
Citing progress on Vietnam 's efforts to determine the fate of missing Americans , the Clinton Administration is moving toward easing the economic embargo against Hanoi and plans to consult Congress about it early in the new year , Administration officials said today .