After six hours of talks with Hanoi officials , four American veterans of the Vietnam War expressed hope today that the emotional issue of the 2,500 United States servicemen still missing in Southeast Asia could be resolved in the near future .
Robert O. Muller , executive director of the Vietnam Veterans of America , the leader of the visiting group , urged the Vietnamese to invite the United States to send personnel to assist in the search for the missing Americans .
Such a step would ''substantially improve '' Vietnam 's relations with the United States and ease the ''logistical burdens '' that the Vietnamese claim to have in hunting for the remains of the servicemen .
Most of the 2,500 servicemen missing in Vietnam , Laos and Cambodia are believed dead , although anguished American families believe that some of them remain alive as prisoners of war .
Reagan Administration officials believe that the Vietnamese Government has been uncooperative in the search for the missing Americans , although the Hanoi Government insists that there are no American prisoners of war alive in Vietnam , and all remains have been handed over to the American side .
Vo Hoang , director of the Vietnamese office in charge of finding missing Americans , said that the ''logistical problems were enormous '' in terms of sending out helicopters and search parties to jungles to hunt for the remains .
Vietnam announced today that it had found the remains of three United States airmen missing since the Vietnam War .
Vu Hoang , director of the Vietnamese office in charge of finding missing American servicemen , said the remains of the three airmen would be turned over to American officials as soon as forensic specialists had completed identification .
Vietnam handed over three wooden coffins today with the remains of three American servicemen missing since the Vietnam War .
Skeletal remains believed to be those of four United States servicemen who died in Laos arrived today from Thailand .
Coffin with remains of a U.S. serviceman killed in Vietnam arriving at Travis Air Force Base , Calif. , from Hawaii The State Department said yesterday that it had serious questions to ask the Vietnamese Government about the belated return of the bodies of three missing servicemen .
Today , more than 14 years after he was listed as missing in action over North Vietnam , Comdr .
A representative of the National League of Families of American Prisoners and Missing in Southeast Asia today turned over to American officials skull fragments that were said to be the remains of three American airmen missing in action over Laos since the Vietnam War .
The Defense Department said today that remains turned over to the United States authorities in Thailand in July and August were not those of eight American servicemen missing in Laos .