A new book based on Vietnamese military archives asserts that Hanoi withheld considerable information on American prisoners of war for decades , and began releasing it only after the cold war , when Soviet-bloc support evaporated and Vietnam urgently sought to end an American-led economic embargo .
Prime Minister Vo Van Kiet of Vietnam said today that he shared the pain of the families of United States servicemen killed during the Vietnam War and urged both nations to put hatred behind them .
United States officials announced today that they had been given `` significant '' new documents from Vietnam 's Government on missing American military personnel from the Vietnam War .
However , they did not say if the information would meet President Clinton 's demand that Hanoi show progress in tracing missing Americans before relations could be improved between the two countries .
Honoring veterans in Memorial Day ceremonies , President Clinton promised today to `` leave no stone unturned '' in accounting for prisoners of war and troops missing in action in Vietnam , and he praised Hanoi for cooperating in such efforts more `` than ever before . ''
The President 's remarks amounted to some of his most detailed -- and conciliatory -- comments on Vietnam , as his advisers debate whether the United States should establish full diplomatic ties with its former enemy as the next step in accounting for missing troops and pursuing trade and economic opportunities in Southeast Asia .
A former Congressman who says he knows where American servicemen are imprisoned in Vietnam handcuffed himself to the gate of the United States office in Hanoi that investigates the fate of those listed as missing in action from the Vietnam War .
William Hendon , a former Republican representative from North Carolina , met with United States officials here today but refused to say where he believes the prisoners are being kept .
Vietnam today ordered William Hendon , a former Republican Congressman from North Carolina who says Vietnam is still holding American prisoners of war , to leave the country on Friday .
THANH , Vietnam , June 18 support his contention .
Republicans in Congress bitterly attacked President Clinton today for extending full diplomatic recognition to Vietnam and accused him of selling out the families of Americans missing in Vietnam .
In a first Congressional hearing on the President 's decision on Tuesday to establish relations -- 22 years after the American withdrawal from the war -- Republicans on the House International Affairs Committee spoke with unusual passion in asserting that President Clinton was in an unseemly rush to recognize Vietnam even though it has not provided a full accounting of the 1,618 Americans missing there .
Military investigators have identified human remains found in Vietnam as belonging to four American servicemen missing in action since the Vietnam war .