United States troops with picks and shovels spread out across 600 miles of Vietnam today , searching former battlefields for soldiers missing since the Vietnam War .
The United States Government wants the best possible accounting of the more than 2,200 Americans missing in Indochina before ending the trade embargo against Vietnam .
U.S.-Vietnamese excavation teams made the 27th field search for servicemen 's remains at a crash site in central Vietnam last week .
As the Clinton Administration moves toward lifting the trade embargo on Vietnam , it is still embroiled in a dispute over the most emotionally wrenching issue in the debate : whether Hanoi has done enough to return the remains of Americans missing from a war that ended nearly 20 years ago .
Following are excerpts from President Clinton 's announcement today that he was lifting the trade embargo against Vietnam , as transcribed by the Federal News Service , a private company : From the beginning of my Administration , I have said that any decisions about our relationships with Vietnam should be guided by one factor and one factor only -- gaining the fullest possible accounting for our prisoners of war and our missing in action .
It will surprise many people with whom I have worked on behalf of missing servicemen from the Vietnam War that I applaud President Clinton 's decision to lift trade sanctions against Vietnam .
The Defense Department official in Vietnam leading the investigation of the fate of Americans missing from the Vietnam War predicted today that President Clinton 's decision to lift the 19-year-old trade embargo on Vietnam would result in greater cooperation from Hanoi .
Russian officials reportedly complained last November that State Department officials were discouraging them from releasing documents about prisoners of war in Vietnam .
The commander of American military forces in the Pacific praised Vietnam today for its cooperation in accounting for American troops missing from the Vietnam War .
To the Editor : For more than 20 years the United States held accounting for its missing in action in the Vietnam War as a condition for resuming business in Vietnam -- as long as it took for us to acknowledge that the Vietnamese also lacked news of their M.I.A . 's .
So too , accounting for the 609 Kuwaitis missing since the Persian Gulf war has become a condition for lifting economic sanctions against Iraq .
 `` For 2,000 years , wars have seeded our land with the bones of the missing in action , '' the general told a visitor , `` and the American war produced a particularly rich crop .
American search teams have recovered remains believed to be those of a marine who died in captivity during the Vietnam War , a United States official said today .
The discovery was greeted as a breakthrough by United States officials in Hanoi , who are investigating 84 cases of Americans missing in action from the war .
Vietnam veterans paid tribute to their colleagues still missing in action yesterday at a ceremony at Roosevelt Park in Edison .
In a 24-hour vigil , they hung homemade dog tags , bearing the name of each man who is missing , in a model bamboo cage to symbolize their suspected imprisonment .