The United States Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense , Richard L. Armitage , arrived here today en route to Hanoi on a trip designed to underline American concern over some 2,400 Americans still officially listed by the Pentagon as missing in action in Vietnam , Laos and Cambodia .
Foreign Minister Nguyen Co Thach of Vietnam said today that the United States was using the issue of missing servicemen as a ''political weapon '' and he threatened not to cooperate in the search for them .
A Reagan Administration delegation left Hanoi today after a two-day mission that apparently failed to gain Vietnamese cooperation in the search for 2,500 Americans listed by the Pentagon as missing in action in Indochina .
Vietnam has agreed for the first time to allow United States technicians to visit and give training in the identification of human remains in the search for Americans missing since the Vietnam War , the State Department said today .
Vietnam today turned over to United States officials in Hanoi the remains of five people believed to be missing Americans and material evidence on three other Americans listed as missing in action in the Vietnam War , the Pentagon said .
A dispatch from Hanoi on May 30 transposed the names of two American servicemen whose identification cards were given to a group of Vietnam veterans by the Vietnamese Government .
A correction yesterday , referring to a dispatch from Hanoi published on May 30 about missing American serv- icemen , incorrectly gave one name .
President Reagan 's national security adviser said today that the Administration did not rule out the possibility that some Americans still are being held captive in Southeast Asia nine years after United States troops were pulled out of the Vietnam War .
''We have no confirmed evidence , but we have enough information not to rule out the possibility that some of our unaccounted-for servicemen could still be held alive in Indochina , '' said William P. Clark .
Four Americans looking for relatives missing in the Vietnam War said today that they had found the wreckage , in Laos , of an Air Force C-130 and the remains of its crew , convincing a Florida woman that her husband was dead .
Ann Hart , of Pensacola , Fla. , part of the first group of private United States citizens to search for Americans missing in action , said in a telephone interview that she was convinced that her husband , Maj. Thomas T. Hart 2d of the Air Force , could not have survived the crash of the C-130 Hercules shot down Dec. 21 , 1972 .
Vietnam will permit searches for 2,500 United States servicemen missing during the war in Indochina if Washington improves ties with Hanoi , four relatives of missing Americans said today .
Four Americans looking for traces of missing United States servicemen in Laos searched today through a cave used to hold prisoners of war during the Vietnam War .
No sign of missing Americans was found .
One of the four Americans said the Laotian authorities , believing there is a remote chance some Americans missing for a decade may still be alive , would order searches of rural sites where United States aircraft crashed .
The four Americans , all with relatives missing in southeast Asia and all members of the National League of Families , are searching for clues to the fate of some 2,500 Americans listed as missing in action .
Ann Griffiths of Annandale , Va. , executive director of the Washington-based organization , said the group was told that two American prisoners died in 1968 in the northern Laotian cave explored today .
Relatives of missing American servicemen held a ''very friendly '' two-hour meeting with Laotian officials today on stepped-up efforts to produce a final accounting of some 2,500 missing Americans in Indochina .
The meeting in the Laotian capital of Vientiane ended a two-week visit to Laos and Vietnam by a four-member delegation from a private Washington-based group searching for information on American soldiers missing in action .