The United States and Laos announced today that Washington would begin considering the ''humanitarian problems '' of this isolated country as Laotians step up the search for Americans missing since the Vietnam War .
The agreement is similar to one concluded this past summer between the United States and Vietnam , under which American experts on the missing have already visited Hanoi for consultation .
The Reagan Administration has proposed to Vietnam that Gen. John W. Vessey Jr. , the former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff , visit Hanoi as a Presidential representative to discuss the fate of missing servicemen .
As the United States and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations prepare for new rounds of talks with Vietnam on missing Americans and the Vietnamese occupation of Cambodia , the Japanese are being criticized in this region for steadily expanding Hanoi trade .
A team of United States officials ended a round of talks in Hanoi on the issue of missing American servicemen but failed to reach agreement on a visit to Vietnam by a Presidential envoy , the State Department said Friday .
A Vietnamese official said his Government had agreed to a meeting in Hanoi with John W. Vessey Jr. , President Reagan 's special envoy , to end an impasse in talks over the fate of missing American sevicemen , The Washington Post reported in its Sunday editions .
Secretary of State George P. Shultz confirmed today that Vietnam had relented and agreed to American conditions for a meeting with a special envoy to discuss the issue of missing servicemen .
But Mr. Shultz , speaking at the annual meeting of the National League of Families of American Prisoners and Missing in Southeast Asia , also warned that there might not be much progress on the issue .
He said it was good that Vietnam no longer insisted that discussions on missing servicemen be linked with the issue of normalizing relations .
President Reagan announced today that his special envoy , Gen. John A. Vessey , would travel to Hanoi next month in an attempt to revive negotiations over missing American servicemen .
A special envoy of President Reagan and a new Vietnamese leadership are to open talks here Saturday on resolving the issue of Americans still missing in Vietnam 14 years after the withdrawal of United States forces .
Gen. John W. Vessey Jr. is meeting with Vietnamese officials on missing Americans .
A long-sought meeting between President Reagan 's special envoy on Americans missing in action in Vietnam and newly installed Vietnamese leaders began here today , but with scant hopes of real progress on either side .
United States and Vietnamese negotiators looking for ways to resolve the issue of 1,776 Americans still listed as missing in this country met briefly twice today .
An American special envoy left Hanoi today with no progress reported in three days of talks on Americans missing since the Vietnam War .
The United States has refused to open diplomatic relations with Vietnam , but officials of the two countries have been talking for years about 1,700 Americans still listed as missing since the United States troops quit the war in 1973 .
A Presidential envoy who visited Hanoi last week said today that Vietnam insisted it did not have control over any living Americans missing in action from the war .
Nevertheless , the envoy said , Hanoi suggested the possibility that there might be some in Southeast Asia , and the United States and Vietnam agreed that Hanoi would step up its effort to find missing Americans or their remains .
Administration officials say the United States will officially encourage charitable assistance for Vietnam in exchange for increased cooperation from Hanoi in resolving cases of Americans missing in action during the Vietnam War .
A spokesman said today that the State Department was not linking progress on the issue of missing servicemen in Vietnam to private charitable aid to that country .
Charles E. Redman , the Department spokesman , said a decision to encourage private organizations to provide aid , especially prosthetic devices for amputees , was not connected to American efforts to obtain information about American servicemen missing since the Vietnam war .
 A former United States Congressman arrived in Bangkok today with six relatives of American servicemen unaccounted for in Laos or Vietnam since the 1960 's .
The group plans to release 2,500 balloons Thursday with messages offering large rewards to those who can produce a missing American .
The delegation , headed by former Representative William Hendon , a North Carolina Republican , has raised $ 2.4 million to offer to citizens of Laos , Cambodia and Vietnam to bring out any American serviceman still alive and in captivity .
The Pentagon , responding to published remarks by a Cambodian leader , said today that if Cambodia held the remains of missing American servicemen , then it should return them to the United States .
The United States will seek , through international agencies , to verify assertions by the Cambodian , Prime Minister Hun Sen , that the Cambodian Government has the remains of many Americans missing in action since the Vietnam War , when American planes bombed Cambodia and American forces sometimes crossed its borders , a Pentagon spokesman said .