A high-ranking Cambodian official told three Congressmen touring Southeast Asia that his country has the remains of 80 American servicemen killed during the Vietnam War and is prepared to release them to the United States , the lawmakers said today .
Vietnam intends to turn over to the United States the remains of five Americans missing in the Vietnam War and has information about 18 other missing Americans , the State Department said today .
The two predominant American responses to the emotionally charged issue of the 2,393 American servicemen still unaccounted for in the Vietnam War were on display this week , creating a drama of the living and the dead .
Two Americans , convinced that fellow countrymen were being held prisoner against their will in Indochina , are under arrest by the Laotian police for illegally crossing the border from Thailand , in order to advertise a reward to anyone who can turn up a live American prisoner of war .
At the same time , six American military experts were concluding joint investigations , alongside Vietnamese officials in isolated areas of Vietnam , to try to resolve the most promising cases of missing airmen who American officials privately acknowledge are dead .
Joint United States-Vietnamese search teams found the remains of a number of American servicemen missing from the Indochina war during a 10-day search ending today , an official United States statement said .
In a ceremony at the Hanoi airport , Vietnam today turned over to an American military delegation 23 sets of remains that could be those of United States servicemen unaccounted for from the Vietnam War .
 In a gesture to help resolve the question of American servicemen missing in the Vietnam War , Hanoi has offered to allow the United States to establish and staff offices all over Vietnam to collate information about them .
To the Editor : Your report Nov. 17 of a press briefing in Bangkok , Thailand , by Nguyen Xuan Oanh , an economic adviser to the Vietnamese Government and a member of the National Assembly , needs clarification about the purpose of his October trip to the United States and the status of his suggestion on the missing in action problem .
The Pentagon announced today that Vietnam intends to turn over to the United States what could be the largest single group of remains of American servicemen missing from the Vietnam War .
The remains of 38 American servicemen killed in the Vietnam war arrived on United States soil Friday and were accorded military honors before being sent to a laboratory for possible identification .
Vietnam today invited the Reagan Administration to open negotiations on the resettlement in the United States of several thousand recently released political prisoners .
The State Department said today that Vietnam had agreed to resume cooperation on finding the remains of Americans listed as missing in action during the Vietnam War .
Phyllis E. Oakley , deputy to the State Department spokesman , said Hanoi has notified the United States of its willingness to resolve the problem of accounting for the American service personnel listed as missing in Indochina .
The issue of the missing has remained a major roadblock to improved relations between Washington and Hanoi .