The Government of Vietnam has confirmed that it allowed at least one American prisoner of war to be questioned by the K.G.B .
The United States pledged today to expand its humanitarian aid to Vietnam in exchange for additional cooperation from Hanoi in resolving the fate of Americans missing from the Vietnam War .
Expectations that the United States and Vietnam would soon establish diplomatic relations , more than 15 years after the end of the Indochina War , may be set back by a resurgence of interest in one piece of unfinished business that will not go away : the fate of missing Americans .
The revival of the issue has been spurred by a series of statements over the last six months -- from apparently bogus reports of sightings of live Americans to unsubstantiated information that Soviet officials interrogated Americans in Indochina after the time Vietnam said it had freed them .
The special Senate committee that is looking into cases of Americans still missing from the Vietnam war is planning to take the unusual step of going to Indochina to conduct investigations and hearings in February , a committee spokeswoman said today .
High winds devastated parts of two Vietnamese coastal provinces over the weekend , killing at least 100 people and leaving nearly 500 missing , the official Vietnam News Agency reports .
Senator John McCain , the Arizona Republican who was a prisoner of war in Vietnam , has asked the Attorney General to investigate the latest case of an apparently fraudulent photograph that purports to show a missing American serviceman still alive in captivity in Indochina .
A Senate committee investigating the fate of Americans still unaccounted for from the Vietnam War has turned its attention to reports that satellite photography may have picked up messages from prisoners as late as 1988 .
A high-ranking delegation from the United States arrived in Hanoi today to meet with Vietnamese officials on way of speeding cooperation to determine the fate of American servicemen missing from the Vietnam War .
The special Presidential envoy on the missing , Gen. John W. Vessey Jr. , said that joint search efforts had improved since his last visit to Vietnam in January .
The Pentagon has obtained up to 5,000 photographs of dead Americans from Vietnam that may help clear up the fate of some missing servicemen , American officials and researchers said today .
American archivists will travel to Vietnam at the end of this month to begin reviewing documents and photographs from Hanoi 's files to help resolve questions about the fate of missing American servicemen , Administration officials said today .
President Bush said today that the acquisition of thousands of Vietnamese photographs of the bodies of American servicemen was a `` major breakthrough '' in accounting for missing Americans .
President Bush said today that Hanoi had agreed to turn over to the United States all documents , pictures and personal effects relating to American servicemen during the Vietnam War .
The announcement last week of Vietnam 's pledge to release all photographs and other archival material on missing American servicemen illustrates the new dynamics of the post-cold war era , as well as the old dynamics of American politics .
At the center of a major breakthrough in American efforts to resolve cases of servicemen missing since the Vietnam War is an American researcher who served as a conduit for Hanoi and was paid by the Pentagon as a consultant .
Those who know the researcher , Theodore Schweitzer , say they are not surprised that a man they describe as an adventurer should be identified this week as the principal link in the transfer to Washington of a trove of Vietnamese photographs and documents on American servicemen .
That windfall of material and Hanoi 's pledge to turn over all documents , pictures and personal effect relating to American servicemen led President Bush to announce on Friday that the United States could begin to write `` the last chapter of the Vietnam War , '' an accounting that Administration officials say could lead to a normalization of relations after 20 bitter years in which Vietnam repeatedly denied it had any more information on the missing .
But Mr. Schweitzer , working in Hanoi 's military museum archives since February , uncovered and passed on to Washington , apparently with Vietnamese Government approval , enough material to significantly speed up the resolution of many cases of missing Americans .
Confronted with evidence that its secret archives could shed light on the fate of Americans missing since the Vietnam War , Hanoi has finally opened those records .
Members of a Senate panel investigating the fate of Americans missing from the Vietnam War hailed what they said today was a new spirit of cooperation from Vietnam and suggested strongly that President Bush might soon relax an economic embargo against the Hanoi Government .
Three Senators and a group of Pentagon officials were allowed today to tour long-secret areas of Vietnam 's military headquarters and to rummage through a storeroom of museum artifacts that could hold clues to the fate of Americans missing from the Vietnam War .
The visits were evidence of what Prime Minister Vo Van Kiet of Vietnam described today as his nation 's determination to `` resolve all aspects of the issue of missing Americans '' and to establish full diplomatic and economic ties with the United States .
Documents and wartime artifacts released this week by the Vietnamese Government have allowed American investigators to determine that four soldiers listed as missing from the Vietnam War did in fact die , the chairman of a Senate investigating panel said today .
A dispute arose at a Congressional hearing today when some military intelligence officials said that some analysts had a `` mind-set to debunk '' evidence of live American veterans who were reported missing in action or imprisoned during the Vietnam War .
Critics contend that such a mindset hindered the rescue of these Americans from Vietnamese captivity , and charges such as these have spurred reports that Americans might still be alive in Indochina .
Senator John F. Kerry today condemned as `` grotesque '' and `` fraudulent '' some lucrative fund-raising strategies that exploited the hopes of families of Americans missing or imprisoned during the Vietnam War .
Soldiers who deserted during the Vietnam War may account for a number of reported sightings of Americans in Indochina after prisoners of war were returned in 1973 , a United States Senator said today .
Senator John Kerry , Democrat of Massachusetts , said at a news conference that there was evidence of `` a significant enough number '' of deserters to take into account when evaluating reports of sightings of American servicemen unaccounted for after the Vietnam War .
All American prisoners of war were supposed to be returned in 1973 under terms of the Paris peace accords , but some people believe that of the almost 2,300 Americans listed as missing some are still held captive .
Joint teams headed into the Vietnamese countryside today to begin the biggest effort so far to account for 2,266 American servicemen missing from the Vietnam War , a United States military spokesman said .
President Boris N. Yeltsin today bolstered his assertion that American prisoners of war were transferred to the Soviet Union from Vietnam , saying Russia had a list of names under investigation that included United States servicemen captured in Indochina .
When evidence that American servicemen were detained in Soviet labor camps in the 1940 's and 50 's was turned over to a Senate committee last week by the Russians , and President Boris N. Yeltsin suggested that the practice may have extended into the Vietnam era , an obvious question was : For what purpose would Americans have been brought to the Soviet Union ?
Some groups and relatives who monitor the missing say that if Moscow did obtain such servicemen from the North Vietnamese , it may have been to learn more about advanced American military technology .
A Russian document given to a Senate committee discloses that 125 servicemen previously listed as dead or missing in the Korean War actually survived and were turned over to Soviet interrogators in North Korea , leaders of the Senate Select Committtee on P.O.W.-M.I.A .
A Senate committee chairman took issue today with almost two decades of Administration assertions that all Vietnam War prisoners were accounted for when Washington and Hanoi signed a cease-fire accord in 1973 .
He said his committee 's reading of official documents led him to believe that as many as 133 might have still been alive and in captivity at the time .
Opening two days of hearings , questioning present and former government officials whose job it was to keep track of missing Americans , Senator John Kerry , Democrat of Massachusetts and chairman of the committee , also said that from 1965 to 1972 files on people involved in covert operations , often in Laos or Cambodia , were deliberately falsified to protect secrecy .
A special Presidential envoy to Hanoi said today that five years of discussions with the Vietnamese about missing United States servicemen have produced no evidence that any of the Americans are still alive in Vietnam .
As a way to win the repatriation of any American servicemen still held in Southeast Asia , Ross Perot unsuccessfully sought to persuade the Reagan White House to begin limited economic relations with Vietnam and to expand diplomatic contacts .
The Pentagon said today that Hanoi had begun to put new obstacles in the way of resolving more quickly the cases of American servicemen still unaccounted for from the Vietnam War .
Charging that the United States is making `` excessive '' demands in its search for servicemen still unaccounted for from the Vietnam War , Hanoi 's chief delegate to the United Nations said yesterday that the Vietnamese had begun to fear that American inspections of prisons and archives are cloaks for espionage .
Documents being released by the Pentagon show that Laos has been a persistent focus of attention and frustration through nearly two decades of investigation of Americans still missing from the Vietnam War .
The documents also disclose that a lengthening list of officials in Richard M. Nixon 's Administration believed that as many as several hundred people were missing when the war-time prisoner exchange ended in 1973 .
Ross Perot , who helped to foster the belief that American prisoners remained captive in Indochina after the Vietnam War , told a Senate committee today that a policy of isolating and `` humiliating '' Hanoi had been misguided and counterproductive .
Three top Reagan Administration officials responsible for tracking the cases of United States servicemen missing in Vietnam said today that the Government had known for nearly 20 years that some American prisoners of war may have been alive in Indochina when troops were withdrawn in 1973 .
Former American officials insist they did all they could to ascertain the status of American servicemen missing in Vietnam in the early 1970 's , and they deny they were negligent in any way .
Moreover , the former officials said they did not knowingly abandoned any American servicemen who fought in Indochina .
The comments came in response to Congressional testimony this week suggesting that American prisoners of war may have been left behind in Vietnam after American forces withdrew in 1973 .
The reason for all the theories that American prisoners of war remain alive in Indochina , almost two decades after the end of the Vietnam War , now becomes painfully clear .
From 1973 on , official Washington misrepresented what it knew and shrugged off new leads , betraying its obligations to the families of the missing and to the public at large .
To the Editor : President Bush in his address to the American Legion ( front page , Aug. 26 ) vowed that we would not recognize the Vietnamese Government and exchange diplomats until the prisoner of war-missing in action issue has been resolved .
To the Editor : In `` What 's Still Missing on M.I.A .
's '' ( editorial , Aug. 18 ) , you seem surprised that `` official Washington misrepresented what it knew '' about United States forces missing in action in Vietnam in 1973 , and that the Government betrayed `` its obligation to the families of the missing and the public at large . ''
Nearly 20 years after American troops came home from Vietnam , Roger E. Shields , the Pentagon official in charge of accounting for those who did not return , is still haunted by accusations that the Nixon Administration knowingly left servicemen behind .
He is also pained , he says , to see himself quoted as the official who in effect wrote off all the missing as dead .
Two former Defense Secretaries in the Nixon Administration said today that they believed in 1973 at the time American forces were being withdrawn from Vietnam that some American prisoners were still in Vietnam and Laos and were not returned by the Communist authorities .
Former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger said today that top officials of the Nixon Administration did not knowingly leave American prisoners of war behind in Vietnam and Laos when United States troops were withdrawn from Vietnam in 1973 .
Elliot L. Richardson , Secretary of Defense when American troops were withdrawn from Vietnam in 1973 , said today that the Pentagon believed that some prisoners of war might have remained in neighboring Laos , contrary to a statement by President Nixon that all the prisoners were on their way home .
America 's Vietnam agony ended a generation ago but one issue wo n't go away -- the fate of several hundred servicemen who disappeared after being captured in Vietnam , Laos and Cambodia .
IN three days of Senate committee hearings last week on American servicemen who failed to return from the war in Indochina , an array of Nixon Administration officials all acknowledged that there was a good chance some men had been left behind when Hanoi returned 591 prisoners of war in early 1973 .
Congress and the Nixon Administration , bitter adversaries in 1973 when American troops withdrew from Vietnam , confronted each other again this week in Senate hearings that went to the heart of almost every contentious aspect of the issue of missing American servicemen .
Vietnam hawks and doves found a new battleground last week -- Senate hearings on prisoners of war and missing in action .