The United States and Vietnam do not agree about much , but Hanoi has evidently accepted Washington 's insistence that it must cooperate in accounting for the 1,797 Americans listed as missing in the war that ended in 1975 .
A high-level American delegation arrived in Thailand today on its way to Hanoi for talks on Americans missing in action from the Vietnam War .
Two days of high-level talks between the United States and Vietnam on the issue of Americans missing in action from the Vietnam War ended today with both sides expressing satisfaction with negotiations but calling for quicker progress on unresolved cases .
While American and Vietnamese officials expressed satisfaction last week with the atmosphere of good will surrounding two days of high-level talks in Hanoi on Americans missing in action since the Vietnam War , both sides agreed that they had reached a time when building confidence and increasing cooperation would be critical .
Material progress will have to be made , they said , if the issue of the missing is no longer to prevent better relations between the two countries .
Vietnam has agreed to investigate 95 United States reports that some Americans are still being held prisoner in Indochina , senior Administration officials said today .
Senator Frank H. Murkowski went to Vietnam to find out about Americans missing in action in the Indochina war , but left today with two Vietnamese children who were separated from their mother seven years ago .
Senator Murkowski , Republican of Alaska , led a Congressional delegation to Hanoi to urge the Vietnamese to help resolve the cases of Americans who remain listed as missing in action from the Vietnam War .
A United States Congressional delegation said today that Laotian officials had rejected an appeal to allow Americans to enter Laos to help investigate possible sightings of American soldiers .
The four-member delegation reported that although the parting toasts were cordial , the talks had produced little new information on the fate of 556 Americans still listed as missing in action in Laos during the Vietnam War .
A group of American members of Congress said today that Vietnamese officials had acknowledged for the first time that missing Americans might be living inside Vietnam , in remote areas not under full Government control .
They said Deputy Foreign Minister Hoang Bich Son had told them that three Vietnamese teams were investigating reported sightings of Americans and had invited the United States to take part .
The members of Congress , who came here after two days in the Vietnamese capital , said Vietnamese officials also promised to return the bodies of 14 more Americans missing in action from the Vietnam War and had increased to 70 the number of missing on whom they promised reports .
''For the first time , the Vietnamese Government is investigating a large number of live sightings , '' said Representative Gerald B. Solomon , Republican of Upstate New York , who is leading the nine-member House of Representatives task force on missing Americans and prisoners of war in Southeast Asia .
A United States military team arrived in Hanoi today to resume talks on American servicemen listed as missing in action in Vietnam and to set a date for the return of 14 sets of American remains , military officials said .
Vietnam has handed over reports on 49 cases involving Americans missing in action in the Vietnam War and repeated its promise to repatriate more remains of American servicemen , a United States officer said today .
Vietnam has agreed to turn over to the United States , on April 10 in Hanoi , at least 21 sets of remains thought to be those of American servicemen , Administration sources said today .
Vietnamese and American officials have also agreed to hold another series of technical talks next month on the search for Americans missing since the Vietnam War , the sources said .
For the first time in years , a Defense Department investigation has found that Vietnam may indeed still hold American prisoners of war .
Vietnam , without any explanation , has called off talks scheduled for this week on accounting for the nearly 1,800 Americans missing in the Vietnam War , an American official said today .
Four United States military specialists went to Hanoi today for technical talks aimed at resolving the status of 1,786 Americans listed as missing in action in the Vietnam War , which ended in 1975 .
 Vietnam said it would soon hand over to the United States authorities what appeared to be the remains of three Americans missing since the Vietnam War , an American official said today .
The Vietnamese also said they were investigating 19 new reports about the discovery of other remains , according to Col. Joe Harvey , who had three days of talks in Hanoi on accounting for some 1,790 Americans reported missing in action .
Vietnam today handed over what it described as the remains of three Americans missing in action in the Vietnam War , an American officer said .
The turnover in Hanoi came as Vietnam neared the halfway point of its pledge to resolve the issue of missing servicemen by the end of 1987 .
American officials , who list 1,784 servicemen missing in Vietnam , say Hanoi must significantly accelerate its efforts to accomplish that goal .
The total number of missing , including those lost in Laos and Cambodia , is 2,424 .
Vietnam today turned over to the United States the bodies of 21 people believed to be missing American servicemen .
Hanoi , saying it is disappointed that progress in the search for Americans missing since the Vietnam War has not elicited ''cooperation and good will '' from the United States , has suddenly shifted to a much harsher public stance toward Washington .
ARE there still American prisoners of war in Vietnam ?
American and Vietnamese officials resumed talks in Hanoi today on the nearly 1,800 American servicemen listed as missing in action in Vietnam , ending a two-month freeze caused by the raids on Libya by the United States .
The meetings are the second of six sessions scheduled this year dealing with the identification of United States warplane crash sites , personnel data and operation plans for recovering the remains of American servicemen .
Vietnam has turned over more information on 21 Americans listed as missing in action in the Vietnam War and has promised to investigate reports that some American soldiers are alive there , an American official said today .
Vietnam said today that the remains of 10 Americans could probably be found , and urged the United States to be ''really cooperative '' so that the fate of nearly 1,800 Americans listed as missing in Vietnam could be resolved .
The Vietnam News Agency said Hanoi had provided preliminary information on 21 missing Americans in a meeting between American and Vietnamese representatives there last week .
The United States today gave Vietnam its first written commitment to support Hanoi 's plan to resolve , within two years , the issue of Americans missing in action since the Indochina war .
Richard Childress , a member of the National Security Council , said at a news conference here that Vietnam in turn had given assurances that it would provide Washington with written reports on its progress in the search and would investigate reported live sightings of missing Americans .
A group of Vietnam veterans who marched from Washington arrived yesterday at Grant 's Tomb for a vigil for 2,400 Americans still missing in Southeast Asia .
, Thailand , Aug. 16 American experts trying to account for Americans reported missing in the Vietnam War investigated sites in Hanoi last week containing wreckage of B-52 bombers , the leader of the United States team said on his return here today .
Hanoi turned over to an American military delegation today what it said were the remains and personal effects of a United States serviceman missing in action since the Vietnam War .
Veterans of three wars and their supporters today ended a 37-day vigil in a bamboo cage to call attention to American soldiers missing in action .