The United States Government said today that it strongly opposed private raids into Laos in search of Americans still missing from the Indochina war .
''Such missions are illegal , counterproductive and serve neither the interests of our country nor the families of the missing in action , '' the State Department spokesman , Bernard Kalb , said .
A team of United States experts flew to southern Laos today to search for the remains of Americans missing in action from the Vietnam War , a United States Embassy official said .
He said the team of 11 experts from the Honolulu-based Joint Casualty Resolution Center was to join Laotian officials to search for the remains of 13 American servicemen whose C-130 transport plane was shot down near Pakse City in December 1972 .
 Vietnam will turn over to the United States the remains of five people it says are Americans listed as missing in action in the Vietnam War , reliable sources disclosed today .
United States military officials flew to Hanoi and returned to the Philippines today with what Vietnam identified as the remains of five Americans missing in action since the Vietnam War .
The United States said today that Hanoi had agreed to the first joint American-Vietnamese search of a B-52 crash site in a move toward settling the issue of 2,446 Americans missing in Southeast Asia since the Vietnam War .
The Pentagon announced today that American investigators would excavate a bomber crash site near Hanoi later this month , the first time Vietnam has allowed Americans to participate in the search for remains of missing servicemen since the war ended in 1975 .
Pentagon officials and representatives of families of the missing said the agreement was a significant breakthrough in the effort to account for the 2,441 Americans still listed as missing in action in Indochina , most of them in Vietnam .
American military officials arrived in Hanoi today to discuss the fate of American servicemen listed as missing in action in Vietnam and to excavate the crash site of a B-52 bomber in the first such joint effort of the United States and Vietnam .
Vietnam asked the United States today to send a high-level delegation to Hanoi to finish details of the two-year Vietnamese plan to account for missing Americans .
The first joint United States-Vietnamese search for Americans missing in the Vietnam War found human remains today at a rural commune where a B-52 bomber crashed 13 years ago , an American spokesman said .
IN VIETNAM , A SEARCH FOR MISSING AMERICANS SECTION 
The United States and Vietnam completed their first joint excavation of an American warplane crash site today , but they said there were only slim hopes of identifying missing American servicemen from the unearthed bone fragments .
American servicemen standing watch as boxes containing the remains of seven missing Americans were loaded onto a transport plane in Hanoi for the flight to Hawaii .
An Army laboratory has identified the remains of six American servicemen killed in the Vietnam War , the Pentagon announced today .
Vietnam will allow a team of American experts to visit a B-52 crash site in June to examine the feasibility of recovering remains of missing Americans , Foreign Minister Nguyen Co Thach said today .
Vietnam 's official radio said today that United States hostility ''would only do harm to efforts seeking Americans missing in action '' in the Vietnam War .
The Hanoi radio broadcast said allegations that Vietnam had tortured American captives and forced them to work in labor camps were groundless .
The United States authorities say 2,441 servicemen and 42 civilians are listed as missing in Indochina .
Hanoi has repeatedly said that it holds no more American prisoners of war .
President Reagan said Thursday that Vietnam must give the ''fullest possible accounting '' of American missing in action before normalization of United States-Vietnamese relations can be considered .
The United States and Vietnam appear willing to consider opening an American technical office in Hanoi to hasten the process of accounting for American servicemen missing since the Vietnam War , according to statements from both countries .
The Reagan Administration , in a statement issued by the United States Embassy in Bangkok , Thailand , made it clear that such a move would depend on a ''significantly '' higher level of Vietnamese cooperation in the search for missing Americans .
Vietnam has offered to hold high-level talks with the United States to resolve questions within two years on Americans missing in action , State Department officials said today .
Vietnam has promised to return the remains of 26 more American servicemen who died in the Vietnam War , the largest such turnover since the fighting ended , Americans officials said today .
Secretary of State George P. Shultz said today that the Reagan Administration was ready to work ''promptly and decisively '' with Vietnam to resolve the issue of missing Americans .
Laos said today that it would send a team of officials to Hawaii to join the United States in preparing for a search for servicemen missing in action from the war in Indochina .
The United States proposed to Vietnam today that an American delegation go to Hanoi to discuss Vietnam 's recent offer to resolve the missing-in-action issue , a State Department spokesman said .
The Government today turned over what may be the remains of 26 Americans missing in the Vietnam War .
It also indicated acceptance of a proposed visit by senior United States officials later this month to resolve the entire issue of the missing in action .
A United States delegation scheduled to meet with Vietnamese officials to discuss the fate of missing American servicemen postponed its departure for Hanoi today after learning that Foreign Minister Nguyen Co Thach would not be present for the meetings next week .
The Vietnamese Government announced in July that it was prepared to resolve within two years the question of Americans missing in action , and wanted to hold high-level talks to discuss it .
Nearly 2,500 Americans are listed as missing in the Indochina war , more than half of them in Vietnam .
Vietnam offered a two-year plan today to resolve the issue of nearly 1,400 Americans missing in action in the Vietnam War .
The head of an American delegation said today that the United States and Vietnam were working on a unified plan to account for nearly 1,400 Americans still missing in the Vietnam War .
Vietnamese officials have pledged to resolve the issue of the missing soldiers in ''a very short time , '' said Richard Childress , a member of the National Security Council .
Leaders of a Vietnam War veterans ' group took issue yesterday with a Pentagon statement that the remains of some American servicemen missing in Southeast Asia had been positively identified .
At a news conference at the Penta Hotel in New York , J. Thomas Burch Jr. , coordinator of the group , the National Vietnam Veterans Coalition , also presented what he said was evidence that the Reagan Administration had ignored or covered up evidence that many American prisoners of war remained captive .
A four-member United States military delegation traveled to Hanoi today to discuss the recovery of remains of American servicemen still listed as missing in action in Vietnam .
There are still 1,369 Americans listed as missing in action in Vietnam and a total of 2,464 in all of Indochina .